# Selection Combining with Maximum Ratio Combining

Consider a scenenario in which the signals of $N$ receive antennas are combined using (MRC), after receiving the signal of one from $M$ transmit antennas using (SC). Let $H$ be the matrix of channel gains, $$H=(h_{ij})_{\substack{1\leq i \leq N\\1\leq j\leq M}}$$ where $h_{ij}$ is the channel gain between the $j$-th transmit antenna and $i$-th receive antenna. Suppose that $h_{ij}$ follows $\mathcal{CN}(0,\sigma^2)$ (Rayleigh fading). Moreover,consider the most general correlation structure in which all channel gains are correlated, i.e., the transmit antennas are dependent, as well as the receive antennas. 

Using (MRC) at each receiver, the (scaled) SNR is given by $$Y_j=\displaystyle\sum_{i=1}^N |h_{ij}|^2$$ if the $j$-th transmit antenna is chosen. Hence the $j$-th (scaled) SNR is distributed as $Y_{j}\sim x^H (I_N\otimes E_{jj}) x$, where  $x=\operatorname{vec}(H^T) \sim \mathcal{N}(0,\Sigma)$. 

Hence we have $M$ dependent quadratic forms in Gaussian variables. Each form is a general quadratic form which becomes, in the case of independent receivers, a scaled chi-square of $2N$ degrees of freedom. In this case, $\Sigma=\operatorname{diag}(\Sigma_1,\ldots,\Sigma_N)$, where $\Sigma_i$ is the covariance matrix of the $h_i=[h_{i1},\ldots,h_{iM}]$. This corresponds to Jensen's multivariate gamma distribution. Futhermore, assuming symmetry on the receive side, $\Sigma_i=\Sigma_{\text{tr}}$ and this corresponds to (scaled) Royen's multivariate chi-square.